# Santander - Data Science Kaggle Competition

Ready to dive into the details of our strategy for the Kaggle competition? 


Check out our comprehensive report here: [Project report](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fabian-gubler/santander/main/Project_Report.pdf)

## Project Description
This repository was created by students at the University of St. Gallen for the Data Science course. It contains solutions for the Kaggle competition on Santander Customer Transaction Prediction, which can be found at the following link: https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/santander-customer-transaction-prediction/overview.

The objective of this competition is to predict which customers will make a specific transaction in the future, regardless of the amount of money involved in the transaction. This repository contains the data and code necessary to reproduce the analysis and modeling steps taken to solve this challenge.

## Installation 

This project requires Python 3.11.0 or higher. It is recommended to use a virtual environment to manage the project dependencies. To set up a virtual environment and install the required packages, run the following commands:

```bash
python3 -m venv env
source env/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

The requirements.txt file contains the necessary packages  and their versions. These packages are needed to run the Jupyter notebooks in this project.

The Jupyter notebooks in this project are self-contained and do not require any additional runtime parameters. Simply run the notebooks as is to reproduce the results.

It is recommended to use JupyterLab to open and run the notebooks. To install JupyterLab, run the following command:


```bash
pip install jupyterlab
```

Once the dependencies are installed, you can start JupyterLab by running the following command:

```bash
jupyter lab
```

This will open JupyterLab in your web browser. From there, you can navigate to the notebooks  in this project and run them.

## Notes on Data set 
The data for this project is sourced from the [Kaggle - Santander Customer Transaction Prediction](https://www.kaggle.com/c/santander-customer-transaction-prediction). The competition provides a dataset in the form of data.csv files. These files can be found in `raw data` directory, which can be found in the `data` directory of this repository.

Alternatively, the data can be downloaded directly from the Kaggle competition page. To do so, you will need to create a Kaggle account and accept the terms of the competition. Once you have done this, you can click on the "Data" tab on the competition page and then click the "Download All" button to download the data to your local machine.

## Contents

This repository contains the data and code for our data science project. It includes the following:

### Data

The data folder contains the train, set and sample submission csv files. (Normally the data folder would also have contained various versions of train and test data enriched with variables from our feature engineering, but they were too big in terms of size to include in the submission on canvas.)

### Engineering

The engineering folder contains the two notebooks we used for the feature engineering of version 1 and version 2 explained in the report.

### Exploration

The exploration folder contains the notebook with our exploratory data analysis which led to many insights which were crucial for the feature engineering.

### Models

The models folder contains subfolders for the different models we trained. In the end our focus was on the lgbm and cnn models. Some archive folders contain additional notebooks from the initial phases of our exploration which were less relevant towards the end. The blending folder contains the notebook with the simple linear combination of our best CNN and LGBM model used to obtain our final score.

### Submission

The submission folder contains the sample submission csv file from Kaggle filled with the predictions of our model for submission on Kaggle. The various_submission folder contains the submission generated by various models and the final_submission folder contains the submission of our best lgbm mode, best cnn model and our ultimate submission which is the blend of those two models (submission_blending.csv).

